Planting guide:

January																							
Start chamomille indoors to be planted in February in full sun and well-drained soil.																							
Start strawberries indoors 8 weeks before last frost																							
February																							
Plant beets, broccoli, cabbage, carrot, cauliflower, Chinese cabbage, Chinese celery, cilantro, collard, kale, kohlrabi, lettuce, mustard green, onion sets, pea, radish, spinach, Swiss chard, turnip, Jerusalem artichoke																							
Plant bush beans, cucumbers, squash, dill, chard, and sweet corn late in the month																							
Mulch potatoes and onion																							
Sow Bachalors Buttons

March																							
March 15 is traditionally the last day of frost. If the native velvet mesquite trees are leafing out that, too, is a good sign that we will now be frost free until fall.																							
Last sowing of carrots, beets, and heat tolerant leaf lettuce																							
Set out transplants of tomatoes and peppers																							
Plant basil, squash, sweet corn, Lima beans, snap beans, cantaloupes, watermelon																							
After danger of frost you can plant Lima beans, black-eyed peas, cane sorghum, chilies, chiltepines, cotton, gourds, indigo, panic grass, teosinte, tobacco, tomatillos																							
Mulch trees, shrubs, and vegetables (will retain moisture and lessen stress on plants as temperatures warm up																							
Plant such annuals as marigolds to add color and deter pests from garden																							
You may want to sow tall plants such as sunflowers and amaranth on the west side of your plot to screen other plants from the hot afternoon sun.																							
       If planting corn consider the traditional “three sisters” arrangement of corn, beans, and squash or melons together. The corn creates a trellis and shade. The beans fix nitrogen in the soil and grow up the corn. 																							
      The squash or melons take advantage of the shade and nitrogen while creating a living-mulch over the ground to protect the soil.																																		
										
April																							
Plant okra, asparagus, beans, cherry tomatoes, sunflowers, amaranth, cucumber, eggplant, melons, Lima beans, black-eyed peas, cane sorghum, chilies, chiltepines, cotton, gourds, indigo, panic grass, teosinte, tobacco, tomatillos, muskmelon																							
Still not too late to plant pumpkins, cantelopes, squash																							
Plant summer bulbs - caladium, anna, dahlia, glads, iris																							
     Warm-to-hot-season greens such as amaranth, purslane, lambsquarters, Malabar spinach, and Yakina Savoy lettuce can be sown now and grown through summer — all will appreciate afternoon shade from a tall trellis, native mesquite tree, 																							
    or sunflowers to the west.																							
May																							
Plant heat tolerant veggies: Lima beans, eggplants, peanuts, peppers, sweet potatoes																							
																							
June																							
Cover tomatoes with shade cloth or perhaps you have grown some shade																							
Sow fall tomatoes indoors																							
Make sure you have covered the soil with mulch to retain moisture and reduce plant stress																							
																							
July																							
With the monsoon rains plant tepary beans, devils claw, corn, purslane																							
Start tomatoes, peppers, eggplants inside																							
If you want, some folks now prune their tomato plants by 2/3																							
Hand pollinate squash and melon flowers in the early morning or increase pollinator habitat and they’ll do the work for you																							
With the first good summer rain, plant seed of native perennial plants within or beside water-harvesting earthworks, especially coyote gourds.																							
Wildlands Restoration is a great source for native Sonoran desert wildflower and restoration seed (Spadefoot Nursery and Native Seeds/SEARCH sell their seed).																							
																							
August																							
You can sow sweet corn again																							
Set out tomato, pepper plants mid month																							
Direct seed cucumbers and bush beans late in the month																							
Set out transplants of broccoli, cabbage, and cauliflower																							
																							
September																							
Plant most greens such as spinach, lettuce, chard, collards, kale, mustard greens, etc.																							
Plant garlic, carrots, onions, parsley, peas, cilantro, radishes, sweet peas, beets, broccoli, cabbage, Chinese cabbage and celery, turnips, garbanzos, lentils, desert chia, rutabaga, artichoke, and nasturtiums																							
Start thinking about neighborhood street and shade tree planting programs. Contact Trees for Tucson 791-3109 and see www.DunbarSpringNeighborhoodForesters.org for recommended tree and understory plant lists.																							
Short-day strawberries are planted from late summer into the fall and produce a single big crip in the spring.																							
																							
October																							
Yellow onion: Although they are cool-weather lovers, Onion seeds are best sown indoors, 2 to 4 weeks before the last spring frost date. They may also be direct-sown after all threat of frost has passed. 																							
      Water onions regularly and feed as needed with kelp or fish emulsion. Toward the end of their growing cycle, begin to hold back on watering when the tops begin to brown.																							
      When the Onion greens have toppled over, gently pull them out and leave them on top of the soil,  weather permitting, to cure for a couple of days.																							
Plant carrots, beets, broccoli, spinach, garbanzos, lentils, desert chia, cilantro, peas, parsnip, salsify																							
Sow native wildflowers.																							
Wildlands Restoration is a great source for native Sonoran desert wildflower and restoration seed (Spadefoot Nursery and Native Seeds/SEARCH sell their seed).																							
																							
November																							
Plant peas, fava beans, beets, carrots, lettuce, spinach, mustard, turnips, chard, horseradish, rhubarb																							
Set out seedlings of celery, cabbage, broccoli, Brussel sprouts																							
Plant hardy herbs like cilantro																							
Plant hollyhocks, calendula, alyssum, bachelor buttons, freesias																							
Harvest weet potatoes as soon as start getting colder																							
																							
December																							
Late in month, start tomatoes, peppers, and eggplants indoors																							
